🚨Do not merge until Oct 18 launch - IDE GA docs (#2152)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/get-started/develop-in-the-cloud.md

title: "Develop in the Cloud"
id: develop-in-the-cloud
description: "Develop, test, run, and build in the Cloud IDE."
sidebar_label: Develop in the Cloud
---

:::info 📌

The new and refreshed Cloud IDE will be open to General Availability by end of October 2022. The new Cloud IDE and includes performance upgrades, ergonomics improvements, and some delightful enhancements!

> Review the [new Cloud IDE features](/docs/get-started/dbt-cloud-features#ide-features) and [our release blog](www.getdbt.com/blog/new-improved-cloud-ide) to learn more.

Reviewer: www.getdbt.com/blog/new-improved-cloud-ide is a broken link. maybe it'll go live tomorrow?

- Cold start &mdash; This is the process of starting a new develop session, which will be available for you for three hours. The environment automatically turns off three hours after the last activity with the rpc server. This includes compile, preview, or any dbt invocation, however, it *does not* include editing and saving a file.
- Hot start &mdash; This is the state of resuming an existing or active develop session within three hours of the last activity.

</td><td>

The Cloud IDE needs explicit action to save your changes. There are three ways your work is stored:

- Unsaved, local code &mdash; Any code you write is automatically available from your browser’s storage. You can see your changes but will lose them if you switch branches or browsers (another device or browser).
- Saved but uncommitted code &mdash; When you save a file, the data gets stored in your local storage (EFS storage). If you switch branches but don’t *commit* your saved changes, you will lose your changes.

> - Committed code &mdash; This is stored in the branch with git provider and you are able to check out other (remote) branches.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Committed code &mdash; This is stored in the branch with your git provider and you can check out other (remote) branches.
```

1. Log in with your [dbt Cloud account](https://cloud.getdbt.com/). If you don't have one, [sign up](https://www.getdbt.com/signup/) for an account for free.
2. Click **Develop** at the top of the page
3. Make sure you've already initialized your project
4. Start developing and use the image and guide below to familiarize yourself with the Cloud IDE and its features:

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/refresh-ide/refresh-ide.png" width="100" height="100" title="Cloud IDE overview"/>

| Number  | Feature  | Info  |
|---|---|---|

> | 1.  | File Tree  | The file tree allows you to organize your project and manage your files and folders. Click the three-dot menu associated with the file or folder to create, rename, or delete it. Note: This function is unavailable if you’re on the **Main** branch.   |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 1.  | File Tree  | The file tree allows you to organize your project and manage your files and folders. Click the three-dot menu associated with the file or folder to create, rename, or delete it. Note: This function is unavailable if you’re on the **main** branch.   |
```

Reviewer: i believe the git main branch is lower case m

| 2.  | Editor  | This is where you edit your files. You can use the tab for each editor to position it exactly where you need it.  |
| 3.  | IDE git button  |  The git button in the IDE allows you to apply the concept of [version control](/docs/collaborate/git/version-control-basics) to your project and you can execute git commands directly in the IDE. |
| 4. | Command bar | You can enter and run commands from the command bar at the bottom of the IDE. Use the [rich model selection syntax](/reference/node-selection/syntax) to execute [dbt commands](/reference/dbt-commands) directly within dbt Cloud. You can also view the history, status, and logs of previous runs by clicking **History** on the left of the bar.
| 5. | Status bar | This area provides you with useful information about your IDE and project status. You also have additional options like restarting or [recloning your repo](/docs/collaborate/git/version-control-basics).|
| 6. | Format <br></br>Preview <br></br>Compile <br></br>Build |  This is where you can format/preview/compile or build your dbt project, as well as see the DAG. The new **Format** feature format your file and is powered by [sqlfmt](http://sqlfmt.com/).|

> | 7. | Lineage tab | You can see how models are used as building blocks from left to right to transform your data from raw sources, into cleaned-up modular derived pieces and final outputs on the far right of the DAG. You can access files in the **Lineage** tab by double-clicking on a particular model. Expand the DAG into fullscreen to view the DAG view differently. Note: Our default view is `+model+`, however, you can change it to `2+model+2`. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 7. | Lineage tab | You can see how models are used as building blocks from left to right to transform your data from raw sources into cleaned-up modular derived pieces and final outputs on the far right of the DAG. You can access files in the **Lineage** tab by double-clicking on a particular model. Expand the DAG into fullscreen to view the DAG view differently. Note: The default view is `+model+`, however, you can change it to `2+model+2`. |
```

> | 8. |Change branches and view documentation | Change branches in few clicks and focus on developing. You can generate and view your [documentation](/docs/collaborate/build-and-view-your-docs) for your dbt project in real-time. You can inspect and verify what your project's documentation will look like before you deploy your changes to production.|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 8. |Change branches and view documentation | Change branches in fewer clicks and focus on developing. You can generate and view your [documentation](/docs/collaborate/build-and-view-your-docs) for your dbt project in real time. You can inspect and verify what your project's documentation will look like before you deploy your changes to production.|
```

> | 9. | File state indicators | The file state indicators will indicate and tarack any action or changed made in your project. The indicators **M, U, and  •** appear to the right of your file or folder name, and also under the **Changes** section. |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 9. | File state indicators | The file state indicators will indicate and track any action or changed made in your project. The indicators **M, U, and  •** appear to the right of your file or folder name, and also under the **Changes** section. |
```

## Build, compile, and run projects

> You can *build*, *compile*, *run* *, and test* dbt projects by using the command bar. The Cloud IDE will update in real-time when you run models, tests, seeds, and operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can *build*, *compile*, *run* *, and test* dbt projects by using the command bar. The Cloud IDE will update in real time when you run models, tests, seeds, and operations.
```

## Build and view your project's docs

The dbt Cloud IDE makes it possible to view documentation for your dbt project while your code is still in development. With this workflow, you can inspect and verify what your project's generated documentation will look like before your changes are released to production.

To generate your project’s documentation (docs) in the IDE, run `dbt docs generate` in the command bar. This command generates the docs for your dbt project as it currently exists in development.

After you generate a successful run, you can view your documentation for your dbt project in real time by clicking **View Docs** or the book icon above the file tree.

You can view the latest version of your documentation rendered in a new browser window, and inspect and verify what your project's documentation will look like before you deploy your changes to production.

## Related docs

- [What is dbt?](/docs/introduction#dbt-features)
- [dbt Learn courses](https://courses.getdbt.com/collections)
- [dbt Cloud features](/docs/get-started/dbt-cloud-features)
- [Version control basics](/docs/collaborate/git/version-control-basics)
- [dbt Commands](/reference/dbt-commands)

> - [New and improved Cloud IDE](www.getdbt.com/blog/new-improved-cloud-ide) blog

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [New and improved Cloud IDE](www.getdbt.com/blog/new-improved-cloud-ide)
```

Reviewer: broken link. maybe it'll go live soon tho?
